Thank you, Heidi, friend.
How are you all?
Hope everybody's feeling fine today, and you guessed it again.
It's your old woods rider, Jelly Elliott, and all the knotheads gathered up here under the old pine tree, and we're going to play some tunes that we've had lots and lots of requests for, and we do hope that you're going to enjoy them.
So just relax, and here we go with the first one, featuring Bob and his strata-potato fiddle, and it's a chicken song.
Yes, sir, Chicken Reel.
Go ahead and go ahead and go.
Well, thank you, Bobby.
Thank you, boy.
Bob didn't forget to put that bandy in there, did he?
Well, that's all right.
Friends, I wanted to tell you about a couple of my uncles.
I got two uncles, and there's really a lot of difference in them, and I wanted to tell you about them.
Uncle Ed.
Uncle Ed there, I got an Uncle Charlie, and I got Uncle Ed.
Well, Uncle Ed, he's one of those fellas, for an example, that he still got it in his head that he's got to burn every year.
I don't know why.
It seems that Uncle Ed would learn, but he still burns.
And every year when he gets ready to burn, he takes no precautions whatsoever.
He clears a new ground or anything.
He just gets out there and burns when the notion strikes him.
And as I said, it looks like that he would learn someday.
Now, I don't care if these two uncles of mine are listening because it'll do Uncle Charlie some good, and it won't hurt Uncle Ed any more than he's already hurt himself.
so I guess it don't make any difference.
As I said, he's been one of these old-fashioned wood burners for years and years, ever since I can remember.
He burns for snakes and bull weavers and ticks, and then he burns just to be burning.
I guess he just likes to smell the leaves burning or something, I don't know.
He never plows a fire lane, and he always waits for a good dry day.
Now, as I said, he burns for
We'll say snakes.
Who ever heard of burning off 40 acres of land there to try to burn up one or two snakes?
And he can't do it to start with.
The snake's got more sense than he's got.
He'll go in a hole and the fire passes over, he comes out.
Well, he was going to burn for, if he goes to burn for, we'll say for bull weevils.
Well, a bull weaver, he'll take his whole family in the fall, and he'll find him a good old wet, soggy, doughty chunk and get just as far down in it as he can get, and there's where he'll stay.
Fire and sleet and snow or nothing else is going to harm him.
In the spring, he's ready to go again, him and his whole family.
Well, you take burning for ticks.
That's the most impossible thing I ever heard of.
Well, you'd have to catch all the varmints and everything and clean them up ticks first.
Even turtles have snakes on them.
So, you see, that's impossible.
Possible to burn for ticks.
I mean the snake the turtles have ticks on them Well, I get excited about these things friends don't hold it against me I can't help it but uncle ed is one of those kind of fellas He burned every year now he ought to learn better because uncle ed I know friends he's in the family and I know uncle ed has spent a lot of money for fines and
And for cost of putting out fire and letting it run wild, burning up other people's fence, he'd have to go over and rebuild their fences and buy a new post and all that sort of thing.
But you can go to Uncle Ed's place, friends.
You can go to his house, and you can just look around the surroundings.
His house and surroundings will tell you just what sort of fellow he is.
He's got old, poor, run-down land.
There's gullies washed down through it that's impossible to plow within 100 yards of them.
And his house there looks like an old barn.
He don't believe in painting, I don't guess, because there's never been a drop of paint on the house unless somebody...
threw it on accidentally there's something because he don't believe in those things well you can look at his place and tell the old barns is run down and stock is poor his old mules don't look like they could pull a plow which they couldn't if he plowed more than an inch deep and all that sort of thing and his cows his milk cows everything well you can just look at the place and you you can tell that uncle ed is one of those kind of fellows
I got another uncle, but first I want to tell you about this tune here that I believe Bob's going to sing.
And it's a mighty pretty tune.
Bob does a good job on it.
It's a mean woman with green eyes.
It takes a mean woman with a green eye to make me want to change her name.
My baby's jealous.
She says that I'm her man.
She done and blow her lid, but she didn't hurt again.
She's a mean woman with the green eyes.
Oh, Lordy, what a gal.
It takes a mean woman with a green eye to make me want to navigate.
It takes a mean woman with a green eye to start my blood to circulate.
Well, my baby ain't no doctor.
She ain't no doctor's nurse.
Thank you, Bob.
Thank you.
That was very nicely done, Nick.
Yes, sir, that was all right.
Now, friends, you've heard about my Uncle Ed.
I wanted to tell you a little dab here about Uncle Charlie.
Uncle Charlie is my favorite uncle.
I don't mind telling you that because Uncle Charlie, he's a very prosperous man.
And Uncle Charlie's found out years ago that it don't pay to burn for snakes, ticks, and bull eagles.
So, I mean, he's learned all these things.
Now, when Uncle Charlie clears him a new ground, he clears it off good.
and he clears it just like most anybody else would, except he makes very small brush piles because he's learned by making small brush piles that it will completely burn up.
He don't have all these old charted-over chunks to contend with all the year and finally have to hook up to the wagon and haul them out to get rid of them.
By making these small piles, you can take better care of it and keep it raked up in a closer pile and burn up everything in it.
I was over at Uncle Charlie's house the other day.
I go by and visit him pretty often.
Well, I say the other day, it was in the spring, and I was helping him do some clearing and burning.
I went out there and helped him a while.
Well, he got ready to burn off this new ground, and I happened to be over there.
Well, Uncle Charlie had plowed a safety line all the way around the whole thing.
Everything that he was going to burn, he got out there with his mules, and he plowed a good fire lane, a good, wide fire lane, something that he was sure a fire couldn't jump over.
And he hooked the mules to a slide, and he had a lot of water haul down there, two or three barrels of water.
Had plenty of buckets there, and he had some tools, rakes and shovels and fire flaps and that sort of thing.
And then he invited some of the neighbors to come over that day when he was going to burn, had them standing by.
Everybody was chewing the rag around there and just kind of enjoying it.
It was sort of a country get-together there, in other words.
Well, Uncle Charlie always waits for the proper day to burn, and he had picked out this day, and sure enough, it was just right.
It wasn't too dry, and it wasn't but just a little bit of a breeze blowing, and it wasn't too hot that day.
Well, everything was ready to start burning, to start to fire.
In other words, we was all going to start setting brush heaps around and everything, and Uncle Charlie held up the whole bunch.
He said, wait just a minute.
Well, he run up to the house right quick and made a phone call.
He called the forestry office.
told the boys that he was going to burn right then.
Now, he had called them several days before and told them he was planning on burning, but he didn't know exactly what day.
So he went up there and called the forestry office and told them he was fixing to burn right then, and he wanted to notify them before he started.
So that's exactly what he'd done.
That's what everybody should do, and Uncle Charlie did that.
Well, that burning went off, friends, just one, two, three.
I mean, it was perfect.
Uncle Charlie has got a nice place.
He's got a place that I'd be proud to own or anybody would be proud to own.
He's got some fine stock.
He's got a good start of cattle on improved pasture.
And everybody's going in for improved pastures.
You can just ride through the country and see them all up and down the road.
Well, Uncle Charlie's got a nice place.
And his place, friends, you can look at his place.
You can look at Uncle Charlie's barns and his pastures and his new grounds and his fences and his gates and all that sort of thing.
And you can just about sum up in your own mind just what sort of fellow Uncle Charlie is.
He's plenty full of goodness, friends, and he's a real uncle, and I'm really proud of Uncle Charlie.
Here's the next tune, friends, and it features Herman.
Herman is going to play the Blue Steel Blues.
.
Thank you, Herman.
Thank you.
That's fine steel playing there, buddy.
Now, friends, you can drive through the country and you can just look at the homes and you can tell just about what sort of family lives in them.
Just by Uncle Charlie and Uncle Ed here.
And I want you to keep it in mind.
Friends, we've run out of time.
We've got to go here.
But before we go, here's just a little thought for the day that I'd like to leave with you.
The good Lord surely had this plan in his mind when he put land and trees here for us.
Not to abuse or not to burn over in hate, but to protect and use right.
That's our trust.
Well, friends, that brings to a close our little visit with you today here under the old pine tree.
And we do hope that you've heard something that you like.
Friends, don't forget this program is made possible and brought to you with the best wishes and compliments from your own State Forest Service and Uncle Sam's Forest Service with the cooperation of the station that you're now listening to.
We'll be back.
Listen to the local announcer, and he'll let you know when.
Friends, remember, only you can prevent woods fires.
Now let's go home.
Thank you.